.TH NEROAACDEC 1 "MAY 2014" "1.5.4.0"
.SH NAME
neroAacEnc \- Nero AAC Encoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neroAacEnc \fR[options]\fB -if \fR<input-file>\fB -of \fR<output-file>
.br
.B neroaacenc

.SH DESCRIPTION
Package build date: Feb 18 2010
.br
Package version:    1.5.4.0

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
<input-file>
Path to source file to encode. The file must be in Microsoft WAV format and contain PCM data.
Specify - to encode from stdin. Note that multiple input files can be specified, they will be
encoded together into a single output file with chapter marks indicating source file divisions.
.TP
<output-file>
Path to output file to encode to, in MP4 format.
.TP
.B \-help
Show a list of available parameters.
.PP

.B Quality/bitrate control:
.TP
.B \-q \fR<number>
Enables "target quality" mode. <number> is a floating-point number in 0...1 range.
.TP
.B \-br \fR<number>
Specifies "target bitrate" mode. <number> is target bitrate in bits per second.
.TP
.B \-cbr \fR<number>
Specifies "target bitrate (streaming)" mode. <number> is target bitrate in bits per second.
When neither of above quality/bitrate options is used, the encoder defaults to equivalent of -q 0.5
.PP

.B Multipass encoding:
.TP
.B \-2pass
Enables two-pass encoding mode. Note that two-pass more requires a physical file as input, rather than stdin.
.TP
.B \-2passperiod \fR<number>
Overrides two-pass encoding bitrate averaging period, in milliseconds.
Specify zero to use least restrictive value possible (default).
.PP

.B Advanced features / troubleshooting:
.TP
.B \-lc
Forces use of LC AAC profile (HE features disabled).
.TP
.B \-he
Forces use of HE AAC profile (HEv2 features disabled).
.TP
.B \-hev2
Forces use of HEv2 AAC profile. Note that the above switches (-lc, -he, -hev2) should not be
used; optimal AAC profile is automatically determined from quality/bitrate settings when no override is specified.
.TP
.B \-ignorelength
Ignores length signaled by WAV headers of input file. Useful for certain frontends using stdin.

.SH SEE ALSO
/usr/share/doc/neroaac/
.br
.I http://www.nero.com/eng/company/about-nero/nero-aac-codec.php
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006-2010 Nero AG. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.
